README.md, before:

# Skills - API

## About the Skills API

This repository hosts the spring web project which provide the Skills API and the liquibase project needed to set up the
database it utilises.

## Prerequisites

Before running the Skills API you will need at least the following:

* Java ([jdk-17.0.5](https://download.oracle.com/java/17/archive/jdk-17.0.5_windows-x64_bin.zip))
* Maven
* Docker Desktop

## Setup database

1. Open a terminal in this folder.
2. Run this command to create the docker container for the database: `docker-compose up --detach`
2. Run this command to populate the database: `mvn liquibase:update`

## Run database

1. Open Docker Desktop and start the `skills-db` container.

## Running the API

To start the API without using the container run this command from the project: `mvn spring-boot:run`
Ensure the database container is running before starting the API.

## Default Addresses

Once set up, if no properties are changed from the defaults, the API will be available
here: `http://localhost:8801/skills/api/`

The API Docs will be available while the API runs here: `http://localhost:8801/skills/api/swagger-ui/index.html`

Commit message:

Roadmap. (#11)
- Added roadmap to Readme.

README.md, after:

# Skills - API

## About the Skills API

This repository hosts the spring web project which provide the Skills API and the liquibase project needed to set up the
database it utilises.

## Prerequisites

Before running the Skills API you will need at least the following:

* Java ([jdk-21.0.4](https://download.oracle.com/java/21/archive/jdk-21.0.4_windows-x64_bin.zip))
* Maven
* Docker Desktop

## Setup database

1. Open a terminal in this folder.
2. Run this command to create the docker container for the database: `docker-compose up --detach`
2. Run this command to populate the database: `mvn liquibase:update`

## Run database

1. Open Docker Desktop and start the `skills-db` container.

## Running the API

To start the API without using the container run this command from the project: `mvn spring-boot:run`
Ensure the database container is running before starting the API.

## Default Addresses

Once set up, if no properties are changed from the defaults, the API will be available
here: `http://localhost:8801/skills/api/`

The API Docs will be available while the API runs here: `http://localhost:8801/skills/api/swagger-ui/index.html`

## Roadmap

There are features in this API which would ideally be present but have been left out due to time constraints or for practicality. 
If development on this API were to be continued these extra features would be implemented:
  - Authentication (likely with OAuth2).
  - Using Spring Boot for the docker containers.
  - Abstract controllers, repositories and possibly services to reduce code duplication.
  - Further validation on supplied parameters (such as an e-mail validation check and more informative error responses).
